>>From the beginning,
humanity has
yearned to understand
itself and its relationship
with its creator.
In the days of
Moses, the creator
was known as the God
of our forefathers
or the God of Abraham.
But there was no real name for
the divine creative presence.
Then one day, Moses, who
was just a poor shepherd,
came upon a burning
bush, and yet the fire
did not consume the bush.
A voice spoke to
him, saying that he
must go unto the pharaoh
Rameses and demand
the release of Israelite slaves.
When Moses asked who
he should say sent him,
God said, "I am that I am."
For the first time in
history, God had a name.
Armed with the power of
God's name, "I am that I am,"
Moses produced some of the
greatest miracles of the Bible.
Religious authorities,
recognizing the name's
awesome power, declared
that uttering it
was the highest blasphemy.
And so its strength was
unrealized, misinterpreted,
and misunderstood.
Moses never reached
the promised land,
nor did the code
that could unlock
the awesome power of God's name
and set all of humanity free.
>>A code that could
set humanity free.
It may seem impossible,
but Moses learned something
from God that day that
changed the world.
In fact, we still talk about
the miracles he produced.
When God gave Moses the
name "I am that I am,"
there was a simple
code that went
with it that unlocked the true
power and meaning of the words.
But then the name of God
was banned, and uttering it
was sometimes even
punishable with death.
And so the code was lost.
A code is a system of
letters, numbers, or symbols
that communicates
information when
converted into normal language.
If the Moses Code could unlock
the power of God's name today,
is it possible that we
would have the power
to create miracles just like
Moses did 3,500 years ago?
For the first time,
world-renowned scholars,
psychologists, and philosophers
will reveal the Moses Code
and how you can harness its
energy to change your life.
Today, we have the power to
destroy the world many times
over, but the Moses Code
unleashes a new kind
of power, one that creates
worlds and helps us fulfill
our individual and
collective destiny.
Incredibly, the Moses
Code is far simpler
than you may have imagined.
Most of us were taught that
the name given to Moses
was "I am that I am."
That doesn't make
sense without the code.
In reality, the name
was much simpler.
The Moses Code is
a common symbol,
something that we see
and experience every day.
The Moses Code is a comma.
>>The Moses Code is a comma?
>>A comma.
>>I don't think so.
>>"I am that, I
am" with a comma.
>>We're not saying that
the Moses Code is a comma.
We're saying the Moses
Code needs a comma.
>>"I am that--
>>Comma.
>>--I am."
>>The right name of
God, "I am that I am,"
has intrigued me for
many, many years.
When I was a child, I was told
this by the adults around me.
"I am that I am,"
sayeth the Lord.
And I thought, what in
the world does that mean?
"I am that I am"
Then one day, a spiritual
teacher said to me,
I want you to change
your life in 24 hours.
I want you to walk down the
street for 60 minutes today,
and I want you look to
at everything you see,
and I want you to
identify personally
with that, whatever it is,
the grass, the flowers,
other people, the wino,
the rich person driving by,
the chauffeur-driven
Cadillac, whatever it is.
Just look at it
and say, I am that.
So I did that.
I walked down the street.
I was with a friend.
And I was saying in
my mind, I am that.
I am that.
Whatever I looked at.
If I saw violence on a
TV screen, I am that.
If I saw something
beautiful happening
in the park between a mother
and a daughter, I am that.
I was just saying that
to myself and allowing
myself to identify
with all that is.
And the friend that I
was with looked at me
and said, what are you doing?
I said, oh, I'm just
saying, I am that.
She said to me, no,
you're not that.
You're not that.
You're you.
I said, no, no.
I am that.
You don't understand.
I really am that.
She said, no, no.
You're you.
You're really mixed
up in your head.
I said, listen to me.
I am that.
I am.
And then I said, oh my god.
Did you hear what I just said?
I just said, I am that.
I am.
The great name of
God, "I am that I am,"
has been misunderstood
from the beginning of time.
It's simply God's simple
way, God's very human way
of saying an enormous truth.
I am that.
I am.
>>It's just the presence
of God saying I am that.
Everywhere you see, you see me.
People used to same
God is in everything.
Really, everything is in God.
>>God isn't just saying
that I created that.
>>God is this feel,
this presence,
that is everywhere
in its fullness.
>>God is saying, I am that.
>>I am that.
>>I am that person.
>>I am that experience.
>>I am that.
>>I am every that that there is.
>>Many of us are still stuck
at kind of a fifth grade
idea of God, and so we
have, "I am that I am"
is this man in the sky
with a white, flowing beard
and these big,
long, flowing robes.
>>God made us in
its image, and we've
been trying to return
the favor ever since,
meaning that we've made
God in a man's image.
>>And this "I am that I
am" is out there, ready
to decide capriciously whether
to bless us or punish us
for certain things.
>>Now of course,
God can't be jealous
because God's the
only game in town.
God is infinite, omnipresent,
omnipotent, omniscient,
so there's nothing for
God to be jealous of.
So that was a primitive mindset,
projecting human emotions
onto forces they
didn't understand.
>>And we project that
presence outward instead
of having a relationship
with that presence inwardly.
>>If God actually
is each one of us,
then that would mean
that each one of us
is an embodiment of God.
If that's true, then what
would the possibilities be?
What could we create?
>>We're walking to
the wall now, where
we're going to join
thousands of other people
in circling the entire
Old City of Jerusalem.
>>But before we go
there, we're going
to explore three
keys for unlocking
the experience of being
an embodiment of God,
actually feeling in our bodies.
And we're going to
use three letters
to do that-- G, O, D--
to help make it easier
for us to remember.
When these keys are
applied to our lives,
then we'll be able to turn
that simple comma into one
of the most transformative
tools in history.
The first key for
experiencing ourselves
as an embodiment
of God is Giving.
We've all heard that it's
better to give than to receive,
but is that really true?
And how can we give if we
don't have enough ourselves?
Mystics and saints
like Saint Francis
said that it is in
giving that we receive.
Is that just a nice
spiritual slogan?
Well, you know, it
really only comes down
to one idea that's
pretty far out.
>>That which we give
to others, that which
we give to the world,
we give to ourselves.
So whatever one wants to
experience in one's own life,
one chooses to give away.
Now of course, the thought
is how can I give it away
if I don't have it?
Because the reason
I'm trying to draw it
to me is because
I don't have it.
But the very giving
it to another
is what causes you to realize
you've had it all along.
>>There's a part of your brain
in the [? limbic ?] brain that
is not time oriented and
that's not the object oriented,
meaning it can't tell the
difference between itself
and others.
And it has no sense of
past, present, future.
That timeless and
objectless place in my brain
receives what I'm giving because
it doesn't know whether it's
going out or whether
it's coming in.
>>Whatever it is that we are
creating for someone else,
our bodies experience it first.
So when we offer the prayers
or the thoughts, feelings,
and emotions of a peace
for our loved ones,
halfway around the world
or between nations,
we are experiencing that peace
and that healing as well.
And in this way, once
again, we see the example
that giving truly is receiving.
>>So if you criticize
other people,
your brain doesn't know
you're criticizing them.
It receives it as if
it was self-directed.
If you care for and
give to another person,
that part of the brain doesn't
know which way it's going,
so it always receives.
The brain always receives
as a gift to itself
what it's given
to another person.
>>We don't even have
physical contact anymore.
We don't look at each other
because of technology.
We barely see each
other face to face.
So we're missing
that connection also.
Make that connection.
Give back to someone.
Let that person cut in line.
Let that person in traffic.
And I'm telling you, it
just keeps-- it'll flow.
And you'll feel better for it.
>>There's a dimension
about who we
are that, as a result
of giving, that's
the only way we make
that connection.
That's why my favorite book
says, the greatest among you
will be your servant.
A servant is a giver.
>>I think service is
misunderstood in our culture
because we confuse service with
servitude or servant, which
to the ego is offensive.
It's demeaning.
But there is a
saying-- and I always
have used it-- to
serve is to rule.
To be able to be of
genuine service really
allows you to feel that
your energy and your efforts
make a difference.
>>September, 2001,
I was in New York.
I awoke to the news.
And my friend that
I was staying with,
Doug, we went to the roof
of his apartment building
and watched the World
Trade Center crumble.
And both of us simultaneously
looked at each other and said,
we have to go down
there right now.
We were literally running
against the current of people
that were rushing
out of the scene.
We were running into the scene.
Doug works in the media,
so he had media badges
that allowed us to get beyond
barricades that were just
being set up by local police.
There was still no support
system for these firefighters
and these rescue workers, so
it became a real necessity
that we find food and
water really fast.
So we actually, with the support
of a couple of NYPD police
officers, we started
looting all the nearby delis
and supermarkets.
And we had turkey meats,
and we had the finest
of New York delis
meats and everything.
After a while, it became clear
that there was just one food
that all the rescue
workers wanted.
And that was peanut butter
and jelly sandwiches.
And I later realized that it
was because it was comfort food.
And it was the first
area where they actually
did the first roll call.
The fire chief stood up on
top of one of the crushed fire
trucks.
There were probably 400
names that he called off.
And at least half of
them were not present.
As the reality set in with
all of the firefighters
around, that they were not
present because they were not
alive, they were
in the building,
they started to literally
crumble like dominoes
all around us.
They feel to their knees.
They sat on curbs.
And these big, hardened
men were just in tears.
The earth movers came
in to clear the way
for all of the rescue vehicles.
And Wall Street was lined
with fine automobiles.
So the only way to move them
was to literally push them over
with these earth movers.
They just flipped the cars,
one at a time, all the way
down the road, flipping
cars out of the way.
And I watched these
material items
go from being this beautiful
car that I was drilling over to
just been trashed in seconds.
We watched them.
We just stood there, like
12 guys going, oh my god.
How can they do that?
But then it became
really clear to me
that it's like, that was
so irrelevant to the task
of finding people alive, that
all of the material world
was just garbage at that point.
It didn't matter.
I had suited up in a
rescue worker's uniform,
basically, with a respirator
and everything on.
And this actually ended
up becoming my pass
to get into ground zero,
where it was nothing
but qualified rescue workers.
And here I was, just
a civilian with really
no qualification to be there.
So the first victim
that was found
was this little man in a suit.
And he'd been completely
crushed and disfigured
under a fire truck.
And I stood there looking
at him and imagining
what his story must've
been, that he likely
hid under the thing that
felt the most secure,
like a fire truck.
Do you what I mean?
He probably crawled that
fire truck as debris
was falling only be crushed
under that fire truck
when that entire rig
was crushed upon him.
And so that was really the
first sobering moment of, wow.
OK.
This is what we're
here for, and this
is what we're going to witness.
And am I up for it?
And I didn't really even
have think about it.
It was just a yes.
>>We have to understand
that when we perform service
for others, we're not
really doing that.
I mean, it looks like in the
illusion that we're doing that,
that we are serving others.
But the truth is, there's no
one else to serve but the self.
There's nothing going on in
the world except self-service.
>>The more you give,
the more you receive.
But the desire to give is not
strictly for getting in return.
You know, there's not this
intellectual thought of,
OK, well, I'm going to
give to you, you, and you
because if I do, then
maybe I'll get something.
Most of us operate
in that mode already.
>>Moses didn't do that.
He just gave and
received and served.
>>We want to get as God
gives, without expectations,
without wanting anything
in return, just to connect
with another person, to
serve in the grandest way.
>>Greatness is your capacity
and your willingness
to be of service.
Service to what?
Service to love, service to
peace, service to beauty,
service to God, service to joy.
>>I think that when
we do that, when
we take our attention
off all of our problems
and all of our circumstances,
and we put it on somebody else,
it's the thought of
doing that that allows
us to lose track of ourselves
and lose track of our problems.
And that's an act of creation.
>>Recently, I was inspired
by my own son, Beau,
who was having a bar mitzvah.
And the rabbi explained to him
that the mitzvah was really
in the stretch, going beyond
what he felt comfortable doing.
>>What kind of challenges do
you feel like you've faced
and that you had to overcome
to do this great mitzvah?
>>I'm giving away all my
money, so that's always hard.
>>What kind of project
are you going to do?
>>I'm raising money
to build a school
in a poor part of Uganda.
>>He decided that he
would build a school--
>>An entire school?
>>Yeah, a seven
room schoolhouse.
>>--and donate
100% of his money.
>>Moses did exactly the same
thing you're doing, Beau.
He left his comfort zone
to do something good
for people that
desperately needed it.
>>The village where Beau's
project is going to be built
is called Kikoiiro.
And the difference between
a child going to school
and not going to
school is really
the difference between life
and death for many children.
>>It says, Beau,
I've decided to put
my money towards the school.
>>We've received money
from over 500 people.
>>That's great.
How old is she?
>>She's only 12.
That's weird.
>>No, I think that;s beautiful.
>>I know.
That's awesome.
>>They were just ecstatic.
And they really got that this
was a child helping children.
>>How does it feel to
be a philanthropist?
>>What's a philanthropist?
>>This has been a
tremendous opportunity,
not just for the
children of Kikoiiro,
but for also kids in the US to
get the idea that there's more
that they can do.
>>There's some people that
don't have the capacity
to receive the good that
wants to come into their life.
And they end up
becoming martyrs.
They end up burning themself
out because they give,
but they never
replenish themself
through being available
to the presence expressing
through them,
through receptivity.
>>The couples who proceed
slowly in therapy,
the couples who seem
to never get there,
and no matter what happens
in the relationship,
they just don't, quote,
"really improve,"
have what we call a
defense against receiving.
They have no receptors for
letting stuff in, not only
letting love in, but letting
compliments in, letting
positive statements in,
letting appreciation in.
>>To surrender yourself enough
to be able to receive, first
from God, the Holy Spirit, and
then from those around you,
I think is one of the most
sacred acts that we perform.
>>The complete, whole
state is an individual
that gives with ease
and with the grace.
They are here to give, to
share their gifts, their time,
their talents, their capacities,
while at the same time,
they're in tune with the
fundamental order of existence,
their real being.
And they're receptive to
this flow through them.
They can receive love.
They can receive intuitive hits.
They can receive
wisdom and guidance.
They can receive the
beauty that is everywhere.
So there's a complete cycle.
And ultimately, giving
and receiving are one.
>>Most of us have heard
prophets and sages
and enlightened beings
say that we're all one.
But we look out at the world and
we see separation everywhere.
So how can that be true?
Does that mean that I'm one
with Jack the Ripper as well
as Mother Teresa?
Does that mean that
I'm one with you?
Are these just airy fairy ideas?
Or could this be
the next step in all
of us realizing that we're
actually an embodiment of God?
>>The fundamental principle
that you find encoded
in all major religions, all
authentic spiritual paths,
is this spiritual
idea called oneness,
that we are at one with life.
We're at one with
the presence of God.
We're at one with each other.
>>We find that in
all the traditions.
"Hear, o Israel, the
Lord our God is one."
One presence, one power.
The Atman, the Buddha
nature, the Christed one.
It's in quantum physics, Rupert
Sheldrake, the unified field.
One presence, everywhere.
>>This oftentimes
doesn't seem to square
with physical
evidence, primarily
because the average
individual sees the world
through the filter of
a sense of separation.
They see the world
through their senses.
>>And if you're more
in the ego, then you're
going to sense survival
fear, this angst
that you've got to get yours,
that it's all about getting,
getting, getting, getting.
>>Through spiritual
practices, you go beyond that
the sensory realm, and
you enter into a field
where you see not with
eyesight, but with insight
that everything is connected.
The scientists, the
quantum scientists,
would call it a unified
field that is everywhere
in its fullness,
that it's undivided.
>>Because that's what's
being awake means.
It's say, well, I'm dancing
this illusion of separateness
but I'm not separate.
>>So once an individual
has broken through,
then all the things on the
surface that seem separate
begin to work
together for our good
because we're now in
tune with everything
on the invisible level.
So you end up
working not harder,
but you end up working a
lot cleaner, a lot easier,
because you're in
tune with all of life.
So you're not trying to
make something happen
on the surface, you're trying
to make something welcome
on the invisible side of life.
So oneness is the
primary principle.
It's the linchpin of power.
We're at one with God, one
with live, one with life,
one with all the
power that there is.
>>Until we're willing to embrace
the totality of our humanity
and our divinity, we
can never be in oneness
because we're taught
to say, I'm not that.
We're taught to say, I see
something I don't like,
so I don't want to be that.
And we push that part
of ourselves aside.
>>All of us, including
myself, at times
find it hard to be at one
with someone or someones
that either don't
agree with us or that
have values that we believe
to be totally destructive.
>>These days, I'm having a lot
of trouble with phony people.
And I can see that I don't
like that part of myself,
that I'm always
searching for ways to be
more authentic and more real
and show more of myself,
even as a teacher.
>>I finally went to
take my first nap
in 40 hours, 40 plus hours.
I really don't know.
It was kind of timeless there.
And I found an
apartment building
that had been
completely abandoned.
And so I went into the lobby
of this apartment building,
and I found a couch.
And I dusted it off, and I lay
down on the couch with my face
against the back of the couch.
And I cuddled up,
and I bundled up.
And probably about a half
hour into my sleepless nap,
I could feel the little man,
the first victim that we found,
the little man in
a suit, I could
feel him kneeling behind me.
And I could see it vividly.
He was kneeling behind
me, his disfigured
face staring at the
back of my head.
I could fill his breath
on the back of my neck.
And I was pretty terrified.
And I just lay there
for I don't know
how long it was, five or 10
minutes, just thinking, what
is he doing?
And I was still and quiet
long enough for that voice,
whatever you want to call
it, my internal voice, that
said to me, very loud
and clearly, this
could be your Vietnam
or dot, dot, dot.
>>And it just left me
kind of hanging like that.
I don't know what the
dot, dot, dot, was.
But I knew what the, this
could be your Vietnam,
meant, having grown up seeing
all the ex-vets with all
of their drama that
they have brought back
from the war and
their flashbacks.
Having just had my first
ground zero flashback,
I knew that this
could be something
that could stay with me that
way for the rest of my life
and it could probably
trouble my future.
Or-- and I knew that
the answer to the
or was back out on the rubble.
So I got up, and I suited it
up again, and I put my mask on.
And I walked around
the building.
And as I rounded
the corner, they
had put up a new work light.
And it was this very
bright, brilliant light.
And everything just seemed
so bright and so brilliant
that I was just struck.
And I just looked around
at all these people.
And everything,
everything just instantly
appeared different to me.
And I stood there
with tears in my eyes.
It felt like the world
was in slow motion.
I was watching people go
by, and all I could see was
is spirits crossing
and spirits working,
chain gangs of spirits.
And it was so clear to me that
everything was interconnected.
And it was all one
big body of God.
Everybody had
dropped their egos.
They had drop their identities.
They had dropped their rank.
And they were working together
for the greater good of all.
And I was so lit
up with possibility
for human kind, of what
it can be like when we all
are working together
in this way.
And I could really get beyond
concept what oneness was.
Knowing that the entire
world was experiencing
what it was experiencing,
all the separation and fear
and chaos that was
going on in the world,
here I was standing there,
experiencing in the greatest
bliss and beauty of my life.
And I remember just wishing
that the world could
see this situation
through my eyes.
>>When I first decided to be
on this spiritual journey,
I was really looking
to become a better me.
And my sister always
told me that I was angry
and I was selfish
and self-absorbed
and this whole list of
characteristics that I
didn't want to be.
So I started working on
becoming this nice person.
And I learned how to
talk in a nice voice.
And I learned how
to give things away
that I had if you wanted them.
I did all these things.
And then I went to
a seminar one day.
And I'm standing there, and
everybody's looking at me.
And in the middle of the
seminar, this woman shouts out,
you're a [BLEEP].
And I thought,
well, I know that.
How does she know?
And she said to me, let me
ask you something, Debbie.
If you were remodeling
a house and you
were six weeks late and
$20,000 over budget,
do you think it might help
to be a little [BLEEP]?
And all of a sudden,
a light went on
because I thought if I just got
rid of all my bad qualities--
and believe me, I have
plenty-- that somehow that
would make me a good person.
The piece I was missing is
that every dark quality of mine
came bearing gifts.
>>And you can go down the list.
Things that we see
that are very negative
oftentimes have the
effect of taking us
to the next stage
of our evolution.
You take somebody
like a George Bush.
He was an evolutionary trigger.
He's galvanized
the peace movement,
parts of the peace movement
that haven't spoken
to each other in many
years, since the '60s.
He comes along with a war ethic
and a preemptive strike war
ethic, peace movement
starts talking.
So he actually was a
very positive force
for the evolution of many
positive things on the planet.
>>See, if I want to grow
and evolve spiritually,
I have to take my
projection off of them
and own and embrace
that part of myself.
>>We have to be
lovers of humanity.
We have to be lovers
of ourself, and even
seek to love that which our
ego or our mental perception
would say, you know what?
I can't love that.
>>I'm a phony [BLEEP].
Now the question
is, how am I going
to love myself being
a phony [BLEEP].
>>Go within and
embrace it anyway.
>>And even as I
say this, they're
probably going to bleep
me out because nobody
can bear that they might
be a phony [BLEEP].
So they've got to shut
me down, and we all
have to pretend
like we're not that.
People get confused in this
conversation because they'll
say, well, I'm not a murderer.
Or, I'm not a rapist.
But I would say, find
out what kind of person
would be a murderer.
What kind of person
would be a rapist?
Those are the questions
that we must ask ourselves
because maybe a rapist would be
somebody who's wounded or sick.
We all have a wounded
part of ourselves.
We all have a sick
We all have a twisted
part of ourselves.
And even though we'd like to fit
into the ego's ideal of being
a perfect human
being, we're not.
We're all that there is.
And when we can open our
hearts and have compassion
for the part of us
that might murder,
we have no idea if
we're capable of that,
especially if we're living
and watching this film.
But maybe, maybe, the right
or wrong circumstances, we
are all capable of anything,
the most beautiful, glorious,
act of greatness, and
what we would consider
one of the most horrible
crimes against humanity.
And when we embrace
all of ourselves,
knowing that we're both
human and that we are divine,
well, voila.
All of a sudden you have
a whole human being.
And what you feel is oneness.
>>I was married to a woman
who was in so many ways
the embodiment of all the
things we're talking about.
Linda has always been
such an inspiration for me
and I know for so many
other people because
of her kindness and her beauty.
When my daughter and I were
in Minnesota with family,
we woke up the next
morning to hear
that two men had broken into her
apartment and had killed her.
The anger and the grief and
the profound sadness for me
was overwhelming.
My daughter and I and
a couple of others,
we were talking and crying.
It was very late at night.
And my cell phone was
beeping because the battery
was wearing down.
And so I just hit the button
to turn the power off.
But for the first
time, it didn't go off.
Something very
different happened.
The one and only picture that
I have of Linda on my phone
flashed full screen
and froze there.
And we felt her so
profoundly connected with us.
And it was in that moment I felt
this profound shift within me,
even toward these men
who had killed her.
For me, the powerful emotion
I felt over and over again
was this connection,
this compassion,
for people who must have
gone through something truly
terrible to have committed
such a terrible crime
against a woman who was
so beloved and so cared
for by everyone that knew her.
There was a song that I wrote
and performed at her funeral.
And it was a way of
both healing my heart,
but also imagining
what Linda would
say from the other
side of the veil,
if she could reach back and
speak to us about oneness.
(SINGING) And if ever you forget
me, just call me by my name.
And my soul, it will
answer time and time again.
And if ever you should leave
me, I'm never really gone.
You can find me deep
within you, in the one.
>>If you have a
spiritual practice when
those insights
occur, they integrate
into your way of living.
They don't wipe you
out, nor do they just
fade into the recesses of
memory as to a wonderful moment
you once had.
Integrates into you.
And that sense of
oneness and unity
becomes more real than anything.
>>Do you have a destiny?
Moses believed that his destiny
was to lead the Israelites out
of Egypt into the promised
land, while on the other hand,
Forrest Gump felt that life
is like a box of chocolates,
and you never know what
you're going to get.
It can be a little scary trying
to tackle an idea so big.
But it might be
worth another look,
since the final key to
experiencing yourself
as an embodiment of God
is to uncover your deepest
yearning and your
reason for living.
>>The calling is always upon us.
There's always
something within us
that wants to become
conscious of itself as us.
It's called the next
stage of our evolution.
There's something within all
of us that we must express.
>>So Moses represents you
and me, an ordinary person
on an ordinary day having an
extraordinary experience, where
Moses climbs a
mountain and there he
has an encounter with a
presence that shows up
as this flame in a
bush that is burning.
But the bush won't
be consumed, meaning
that the source of this presence
isn't in the material realm.
The source of this
presence comes from
and is presencing that
which is divine and eternal.
And Moses doesn't know
quite what to do with this,
as either you or I would do.
He knows-- there's
something in him that
knows this is about
completely transform his life.
>>Now, I consider myself
a fairly spiritual person.
But if I were sitting
here today and the bush
were to start
burning, in my mind,
I'd go get the
fire extinguisher.
>>The bush is always glowing.
I had an opportunity to be with
a powerful shaman in Africa
a few years ago.
And we were traveling at night,
and I was kind of stumbling,
and they would just
walk into the jungle
like it was daylight.
And we went out to
a clearing and had
this very powerful
experience out there.
And after the experience,
everything was lit up.
Everything was aglow
with this fire.
The leaves were on fire.
The ground was on fire.
Everything was aglow.
And I was aware that these
individuals that were taking me
through the jungle, they
were seeing like this.
They had this night
vision that allowed
them to see the luminosity
from all of nature.
And in that instant,
I had the same thing.
I had that kind of
a spiritual night
vision that allowed me
to see that everything
was ablaze with
the spirit of God.
And I thought about Moses
seeing the burning bush.
That moment he was in
transcendent awareness,
that he could see clearly
that God is everywhere.
And everything is aglow
with this fire, this power,
and this presence.
Moses was having a good day.
>>When Moses asks the
bush, asks this flames,
asks this presence, who are you?
He hears, "I am that I am."
And we don't know whether
the conversation is actually
audible in human terms
or it's a transmission
from the knower
that is everywhere
present into his heart.
But nevertheless, this
communication says something.
And the communication is this.
There is a journey
you are to take.
Joseph Campbell would later
call that the hero's journey.
But there's a journey
that is for each one of us
to take that takes us from our
local, temporal, egoistic point
of view or self to an
understanding, a person
of destiny, a person of
wholeness and completeness.
And that journey is
the Moses journey.
>>Moses didn't
think he was worthy.
And so that unworthiness
combined with willingness
provided a space for
the presence of God
to come through because
Moses wasn't blocking God out
with his ego.
>>So the rest of the story
is both a literal story,
a historic story, but
it's also a meta-story.
It's the story of you
and the story of me.
And all the characters in that
story are parts of ourselves.
So Moses is then told that he
must go and free the slaves.
And he is to take them
to the promised land
or to fulfillment, to the
land of milk and honey.
And he questions it.
I can't do this.
He stutters.
He can't speak well.
He's like, who am I to do this?
And you and I feel
the same way when
a dream, an idea a calling,
something calls to us
to make a difference, give
something, do something
in your local community,
do something for the world,
do something for your
family, do something.
And right away, we feel
like, oh, I'm not up to it.
I don't have what is required.
I'm not enough for that.
>>I think everyone has to
come to grips with the fact
that there's a destiny
within all of us.
There's something
calling all of us.
And we are presently
not the person
that can deliver that destiny.
We grow into it as
we say yes to it.
There's an old statement
that God does not
call the qualified.
God qualifies the called, so
that when we answer that call,
then the presence qualifies you.
It qualified me.
I didn't have all of the skills.
I didn't have the resources.
I didn't have the money.
I didn't have the space.
Didn't have anything.
But God qualified
me through my yes.
So people showed up.
Resources showed up.
Buildings showed up.
Individuals who could catch the
vision that I was articulating
showed up.
And then I changed.
I grew.
So the person they
said yes is not
the same person
sitting here today.
The person that's
sitting here today,
saying yes to the next
stage of the vision,
will not be the person that
inherits and articulates
and manifests that
aspect of the vision.
We're constantly evolving
and growing and unfolding,
based on our ability
and our willingness
and our capacity to
say, yes, I'm willing.
Yes.
>>And so Moses agrees
to the journey.
And there's that part
of us that says yes
to our own destiny, that
says yes to our purpose
as we discover it.
And then of course,
comes having to encounter
Pharaoh, not only
the historic pharaoh,
but the personal pharaoh.
The personal pharaoh
is our intellect.
It's the part of
us that's all made
an agreement with the
kingdom of our lives
as we've known it, everything
just as it is, the status
quo, the comfort zone.
And then there's this part
of us that was to emerge,
this part of us wants
to make a difference.
And there's a
whole argument that
goes on internally
about, no, I'm
not about to make that change.
And ultimately, in
this story, which
is your story and my
story, the hero's journey,
the trouble builds up.
The trouble gets tougher.
Things get more and
more complicated.
And finally in desperation,
pharaoh says, OK.
Go ahead.
Take the people and go.
>>Now, the thing that I find
very interesting about Moses
is that he had a
speech impediment.
We don't know what kind it was.
But one might think, why
would God choose someone
with a speech impediment-- let's
say a stutter-- to deliver 400,
4,000, however many,
unruly Israelites
into a new way of being?
So here they are,
fussing and arguing
among themselves and Moses
with his speech impediment,
(STUTTERING).
You would say, why does God
have such a sense of humor?
And you'd say, why
would he choose Moses?
>>One of the reasons
why God could use him
is because of his humility.
And oftentimes people that seem
that they're lacking something
within themself, they
become great vessels
and great vehicles
for the power of God
to express through
because there's
nothing to inhibit the flow
from expressing through them.
>>Very often we think we have
impediment or limitations,
and we don't think
God can use us.
But God will take your
limitation and use your
and it to deliver somebody
else into a new place
and a new way of being.
>>So the sea opens.
And then the real journey
begins because they
spend 40 years in the desert.
In the Bible and in many
of the mystical traditions,
40 is symbolic of
simply this, the amount
of time required
for transformation.
Noah has 40 days in the flood.
Jesus has 40 days on
the mount of temptation.
Moses has 40 years
in the desert.
It's the amount of time
required for the transformation.
And for some of us, this is
our 40th moment right now.
Watching this right
now, we know that this
is the moment when
the life we've lived
is not sufficient to the purpose
that we're being called for.
>>I think it's useful
for us to understand
why the soul came to the body.
The soul came into
physicality in order
that it might experience
itself, express itself,
in the physical world as
who it really is, thus
to know itself in
its own experience.
>>So the fear is that if we
identify the "I am that I am"
with the "I am that I
am," that somehow it
makes us pretending to be
something we're not being
or taking on something.
But what if it's
just the opposite?
What if by saying that I
am an opportunity for the
"I am that I am" to presence
divine love through my hands
this day to a child
that I'm teaching
or to an old person I'm
helping carry the groceries
or to someone that I call who's
in pain or hurting in some way,
and I'm the voice
that comforts them?
What if when we give ourselves
just the possibility that if we
allow ourselves,
the "I am that I am"
might be an avenue through
which the "I am that I am"
that is God, that is
the presence, that
is the power of life
itself, might find a way,
an entry point, to make a
difference for good right
here on planet Earth.
>>Ah, but we've got
to be careful here
because when the ego start
to think that it's God,
it just gets arrogant.
It gets greedy.
It takes us over completely.
It's not a pretty picture.
We have to dip in to our
soul, to our essence,
in order to be
all that there is.
>>The difficulty is this.
We're a mixture
of a constellation
of different
identities that have
emerged for different reasons.
We're mothers.
We're fathers.
We're brothers.
We're sisters.
We're employers.
We're employees.
There's all kinds of identities.
And every single
identity is pulling
upon our energy
for its survival.
However, there is
a central identity
which is the I am presence.
There's a central
identity which is not
in comparison with
all other identities
or in comparison
with anybody else.
It's the image and
likeness of God.
It's a unique configuration
of infinite potential,
infinite possibility.
And within that core
identity, it is speaking.
It's calling our real name
and inviting us to greatness.
It's inviting us
to be more ourself.
>>Remember, it's the
still, small voice.
We have to get quiet
enough to hear it.
>>And through spiritual practice
of prayer, lowly listening,
meditation, after
a while, you're
able to tell the difference
between the voice of one
of the constellation of shifting
identities or the true voice
that's coming from your soul
that wants you to be great.
And the definition of
greatness is your capacity
and your willingness to serve.
>>When we get past
survival, when
we get past those
small-minded things,
then the only thing
the soul wants to do
is to make a difference,
to give to humanity.
>>What can I do?
There's so much you can do,
you can't even believe it.
Right the end of your
fingertips is a whole world
of your possible creation.
And it is ignited, it is
inspired, it is embraced,
and it is, in fact, experienced
in extraordinary ways
the moment you decide to be in
service, not just to the world,
but to the world of
your own creation.
>>When that central voice
begins to speak, and it's still
and it's small, it's calling you
to a greater degree of service
and a greater degree of
serving humankind, a greater
degree of serving your family,
a greater degree of serving
everyone you come
in contact with.
That's one of the
ways you can tell
the difference
between that voice.
Is it calling to serve?
Or is it calling you just
to take care of yourself?
If it's calling you just
to take care of yourself,
it may be coming from the ego.
>>The question
often arises for us,
so how do I know the difference
between God's will and my will?
And do I have a will?
What do I do with my will?
My understanding of that
is that, where is God?
Jesus said, the kingdom
of God is within you.
So within us, we know we
have the pharaoh part,
or the intellect, or
the part of us that
argues for circumstances
that we know.
And then there's
the prophetic part.
There's the part of
us that does have
a destiny, that
does have a call,
to make a difference for good.
And so when we align the
pharaoh with the heart,
then we align our
will with God's will.
>>When we enact creation, we
are emulating the creator.
And the result of that
is that we feel good.
We feel love.
We feel expanded.
>>You also need inner peace.
It needs contentment,
love, creative expression,
and of course divine connection.
Those are the qualities
that make you feel good.
>>You're actually
wired so that you'll
know you're on track by
the aliveness you feel.
I am that I am.
>>And it's in your being,
your embracing of the presence
and standing in that, that
you give the greatest gift
that you can to the world.
>>And so the understanding about
that and then living from that
is the journey.
A Course in Miracles calls
it the 18 inch journey
from the head to the heart.
>>In that moment, standing there
overlooking ground zero and all
the chaos that was going
on, arose my life destiny.
All my selfish pursuit
of trying to get
what I needed to get and be
where I needed to be in my life
just seemed ridiculous.
I knew that from that point
on, my life would be about all
of us.
It would be about community.
My heart was so filled with
possibility, of what we're
capable of when we're
working from that point.
Because I know it's
possible, my whole life
now has been about
recreating that community.
It is the catalyst
for my wanting
to create Elevate Film Festival,
which, when you really break it
down, it's just a community
of people who understand
this oneness that
I'm talking about.
Can we bring people
into an experience
that's so much bigger
than who we think
we are that we can experience
that level of oneness?
Because when you
do, there's nothing
more beautiful in this
lifetime and this experience.
There is nothing
greater than that.
>>The kingdom of God
is unconditional love.
The kingdom of God
is peace of mind.
is joy in my soul.
I said, yeah, let
me seek that stuff.
And then I don't have to
worry about getting anything,
being with anybody,
doing anything special.
Let me go for the unconditional
love, first of myself,
and then to be able to
extend it to everyone else.
Let me go for the
peace of mind where
I'm not worried about what
might happen, what could happen,
where I'm just embracing
the presence, my I
am-ness, the manna of God
in this right now moment.
Let me go for that.
And let that trickle
down and fill
every other aspect of my life.
>>That's the kingdom.
To that degree that we
begin to know who we are,
that who I am behind my
eyes is the same person
that you are behind your
eyes, then that's the kingdom.
And that's the connection
that connects all of us.
And as we get closer
to that, then we
begin to manifest the
attributes of that in our life,
in our daily living.
>>So once I really understood
what the kingdom was, oh yeah.
Oh yeah, baby.
I want to seek that.
>>So paradoxically
in that moment,
while the world was experiencing
chaos and confusion and fear,
I was standing
there experiencing
my first true
experience with God.
Through giving and the
service that I was witness to,
I experienced the oneness,
the greatest sense of oneness,
that I ever knew was possible.
And from that arose my destiny.
>>Now that we understand the
three keys for experiencing
ourselves as an
embodiment of God,
now it's time for
us to consider what
we can create from
that new experience.
If saying and being,
I am that I am, really
can unlock the power
of God within us,
the next question is, well,
how extensive is that power?
Can we move mountains and create
miracles like Jesus and Moses?
Are these just
fantastical ideas,
or can they really
change the world?
>>"I" is the creative
factor of the universe.
And when you add "am"
to it, what you get
is the movement of the
creative force of the universe.
So every time you say,
"I am," you are creating.
You are creating movement.
Think of it this way.
We say, I am broke.
Yes, and that's how you stay.
I am lonely.
But if we were to begin
to use the creative force
and energy of that name, I,
and the movement of am to say,
I am whole.
I am holy.
I am complete.
I am beautiful.
I am gorgeous.
I am wealthy.
I am, we begin energy
moving in our life.
And we re-educate our souls.
That's all Moses had
to do, was to bring
that oneness, that
creative energy of God,
and put an action to it.
And Pharaoh had no
choice but to back down.
He recognized what
he was dealing with.
>>He was able to take
the I am presence
and lift up an entire nation
to see who and what they really
were and whose they really were.
>>There's actually a way to
activate this creative energy
through a process that we
can practice every day.
And the great thing
about this process
is that it applies to almost
every area of our life.
And you can remember it
with five simple words.
And guess what the words are?
>>(WHISPERING) I am that, I am.
>>The only thing
that changes is what
you focus on when
you say those words.
The first step is
to imagine what
you want to be, do, or
have and really make sure
that it's something
that matters.
And the second step is to repeat
the words, "I am that, I am"
and allow yourself to expand
into that new possibility.
>>So if we want to have
a new way of being,
we must say it and repeat it
time and time and time again.
When we repeat things, we encode
them in our consciousness.
>>The third step is pretty easy.
In fact, you're
already doing it.
It's to breathe.
Controlled breathing
centers you, energizes you,
and actually
amplifies the effect.
One way to practice this
is to say, I am that,
on the out breath.
And then as you breathe in,
either think or say the words,
I am.
Like this.
I am that.
(WHISPERING) I am.
This simple process
takes whatever
you're feeling and imagining and
projects it out into the world
so that you can experience
it in your real life.
>>One of the ways I like to
support people in doing this
is by thinking about the
qualities that inspire you,
the qualities that you desire.
See somebody--
maybe you know them
or maybe you've read about
them-- in your awareness.
Bring that image of
them very close to you.
And then just close your
eyes and start repeating,
I am that, I am, really allowing
yourself to encode that image,
that way of being, and those
qualities right into yourself.
>>I am the joy I
want to experience.
I am the peace I
I am the beauty I
want to realize.
I am the abundance
I want to realize.
And through the power
of that declaration,
through the flow of
that kind of energy,
it manifests in
and as your life.
>>When we talk about
manifestation or getting stuff,
we want two cars, three houses.
You've got one butt.
Why do you need four cars?
I could say the same
thing about shoes.
I've got two feet.
I've got 80 pairs of shoes.
But it's manna to my soul.
But manifestation
of things is not
the same thing as manna,
the presence of God,
that supplies your every need.
>>There are some people that
are dominated by the ego,
and they try to get.
They try to use the principles
for acquisitiveness,
to get things.
And they hoard.
And inside, they're
very poor people.
They may have a lot of
stuff, but they're just
poor people with a lot of stuff.
>>Advanced students
understand that it
works exactly the opposite, not
to try to magnetize something
to us, but to try to bring
something through us.
>>Many people say, I
just don't know who I am.
They don't know their soul.
And it's great.
People think they can reach
out, get the cars, the jobs,
the best relationships,
the money.
People get that, and
more power to them.
But they still say to
themselves, I still feel empty.
What's missing?
You forgot about the soul.
>>And that's really
what we want.
We want the grace and the
majesty and the presence of God
to so fill us until
it's unspeakable
because if we can speak
and call it something,
we'll try to fix
it and change it.
So we just want to be.
And in that being-ness
we have the manna,
which is the manifestation
of the presence of God.
And it's not about
car or a house.
It's about the presence of God.
>>Truly embodying
in the God presence
isn't just about being
saintly and having
this upward connection
to the divine
that we would call
mystical and enlightened.
But it also requires that
we fully inhabit our bodies
and fully be in our
sensuality, our sexuality,
and really combine and
fuse those energies.
>>Love is God.
God is love.
So you are God.
You are love.
And when you use that energy of
love, God will always say yes.
He will manifest
exactly what you want.
>>So if you can access
that feeling of oneness
or the energy of
wholeness, what Jesus calls
the kingdom of
heaven within you,
then you can begin to
experience that all around you
in the world.
>>But if we have an
idea that something
other than the kingdom of God
is something we will seek after,
that we will create
because we are so powerful,
we will create in
our own illusion
that which is not of the
heaven of which we dream.
That is, we'll create
our own hell on earth.
>>Moses and the code never
made it to the Holy Land.
And since then, Israel has
been in constant conflict.
Millions have lost their lives
due to a misinterpretation
of the name of God.
And religious factions have
been fighting for centuries,
ironically, in the name of God.
The thousands of people
of all races and religions
are flying in from all
corners of the world, armed
with the powerful intent to
finally bring peace to the Holy
Land by literally embracing
the Old City of Jerusalem.
>>At the time of the hug and
before, it is important for us
to keep our pure
intention and relax.
>>So we're walking
to the wall now,
where we're going to join
thousands of other people
in circling the entire
Old City of Jerusalem.
>>Can we stretch the line?
>>People, how are we doing?
[HEBREW]
>>We're here facing the wall,
so as you breath out, you say,
I am that, meaning I am
that peace in Jerusalem.
Feel the peace radiating
from this city.
>>I am that, I am.
I am that., I am.
I am that, I am.
>>(SPEAKING HEBREW)
>>(WHISPERING) I am that.
I am that.
>>And so, 3,500 years
later, Moses's journey
is complete, by delivering the
true meaning of the name of God
to the whole land.
It began with a conversation,
but continues today
through each one of us.
The door has been unlocked.
Now it's up to us to
step into a new world.